day:: Friday

---

# Agenda

- **Morning**: Working on data and coding tasks. Testing Zed editor file size limits.
- **Afternoon**: Continuing to work on coding tasks.
- **Evening**: Time w/ family.
- **Late Evening**: ...


# Thoughts & Ideas

I've created a [`timeline.json`](https://github.com/bluesaltlabs/bluesaltlabs.github.io/blob/main/api/timeline.json)
file that contains a JSON object for each day that I have been alive.
The data structure is nested such that accessing data via `"YYYY"."MM"."DD"` format
should display data intuitively related to the day. For example:

```javascript
const tl_data = timelineDotJsonFileData; // the data from timeline.json

let todayData = tl_data["2025"]["02"]["21"];
console.log(todayData.name); // Should output "February 21st, 2025"

// These should also work:
console.log( tl_data["2025"].name ); // "2025"
console.log( tl_data["2025"].description ); // "The Year 2025"
console.log( tl_data["2025"]["02"].name ); // "February"
console.log( tl_data["2025"]["02"].description ); // "February 2025"
console.log( tl_data["2025"]["02"]["21"].name ); // "21st"
console.log( tl_data["2025"]["02"]["21"].description ); // "February 21st, 2025"
console.log( tl_data["2025"]["02"]["21"].day ); // "Friday"
````

What is the point of building out such a large JSON array like this?

1. This is this kind of thing I enjoy doing ...
2. I wanted to see how Zed would behave under the stress of a huge file.
  - There are many reasons I've needed to modify large files over the years, especially log files but also including  note-taking applications. There are developers who say they track their notes in a single text file. Without using something like vim, I haven't known of an efficient way to do this without bogging down the average text editor. But Zed is written in Rust - maybe it could still perform well enough for my efficiency requirements?
  - tl;dr - Yes, it is by far the fastest text editor I've used. I took a video editing the file that I may upload somewhere sped up for reference, but basically the application has absolutely no trouble both editing, searching and performing edit prediction actions on the file with absolutely no noticeable lag. This file is up to 56,716 lines and Zed is still using < 1 GB of RAM ( take _that_ Intellij! :D ).
3. I wanted to see how JavaScript would perform parsing a huge JSON file, and if it's slow to download, I wanted to experiment with loading portions of the file somehow. Of course the easiest way to do this would be to set up a PHP script and process query requests to the file's data, but I don't have access to or funds to pay for a server right now, and I still need to research how to operate modern cloud equivalents of these services. One things at a time :)
