day:: Thursday

---

# Agenda

- **Morning**: Working on coding tasks.
- **Afternoon**: Spent time with family.
- **Evening**: [Rust Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/spokane-rust/events/306179775/)
- **Late Evening**: Working on coding & writing tasks.


# Thoughts & Ideas


## Continue working on Audio Components

This project _is_ important, even though it can feel like a waste of time when circumstances are so urgent. Remember to keep putting energy into this and know that the energy is worth something.


## Create a Command Pallette

Create a command pallette component (todo: add notes I have on this).


## Create a Theme Switcher Page

Create a theme switcher on my website that allows you to switch to different years, and for each year use a theme appropriate for that year. For example, in 1998, use the Windows 98 theme. Before that, see if I can find a Windows 3.1 theme, etc.


## Create Timeline Scroll Page

Create a page that allows you to scroll or otherwise navigate a timeline from this year each month. Until the month I was born. Then, create a json file with an array of entries for each one of these months. Within that file, start adding a comment summarizing each of these months. For more recent times, I could go by day, older times by month or just by year, etc.
As part of this, I could include a tool that displays data relevant to that particular year month. For example, I might list my age, number of pets, or the megapixel value of the camera that I had in my phone at the time. Basically like a little data output thing for fun.


## Create Template Gallery Tool Page

Create a tool on my website called templates where I can define a JSON array of templates written in HTML or whatever other templating language.
As part of the metadata, define what language the template is in and automatically load the required dependencies for that template.
Set up some kind of SPA (single page app) that loads the template in an iframe or other such container and also allows the user to view the template full page with dummy content. Define content areas like header, sidebar, content article, etc. to dump dummy data into the template that can be modified or whatever. Maybe this data is stored via local storage or something like that? But obviously it also has a default value.
There's a lot of extra features that could go along with this, but at its core it's just a collection of data defining templates with metadata as a JSON array, and the templates are defined as files in a directory. The MVP is to somehow display these templates on the grid or something. Initial templates should use Pure CSS like the website, then eventuall add Tailwind and other templating libraries.


## IDE Pros & Cons List

Make a list of the various text editors and IDEs that I either use or have heard about other developers using on a regular basis. This would include Zed, visual studio code, IntelliJ, and other such editors.


### Learn Rust by learning to work on the Zed Editor

I want to a member of the Rust community not just by by being in this meetup, but by learning how to write rust code and contribute to something as well. I think the Zed IDE is phenomenal, and I learned tonight (or possibly already knew previously?) that it's written in rust. This feels like a good place to figure out how to break into rust (and a much more realistic than attempting to code a pi pico car).


# Observations

Other developers I talk to seem to have a good understanding of what they are skilled at and what areas they want to improve in to drive their careers.
I just like information - I like data. I enjoy thinking about data, and playing with data, and manuplating and drawing and visualizing data.
This fascination has had no direct, applicable purpose for me. I'm not proficient enough at math to do anything directly with data science (although machine learning and AI have strongly piqued my interest), and data science work I've come across mostly consisted of designing databases, an activity I've historically found dull and unappealing.
My background is in building and fixing things, and combining this with a fascination for data has allowed me to build digitally, indirectly applying an interest in data to my career goals.
Attempting to determing "what I want to do" the last few years has been an exhausting question to attempt to answer - my desire is to work with technology and write code because it allows me to play with data and to fix things, which are two of my biggest passions. The specific work I do is mostly irrelevant to me, as long as either the data or the work is something I find positively meaningful or impactful (or at least, not detrimental).
How does one discover their niche when one's interest in software development encompasses the field itself?
