## Introduction

In [my last post](/blog/posts?id=3) I stated that the next post (this one) would be about deploying to [Cloudflare Pages](https://pages.cloudflare.com). While I still want to take the time to explain this process in detail, today I'll be diving into the overall structure of this and other subdomains of `bluesaltlabs.com` and `bluesaltlabs.us`.

<div class="note-box">
  <strong>What is BlueSalt Labs?</strong> | For various reasons I purchased a business license a few years ago, and at the time I wanted to come up with a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trade_name" target="_blank">dba</a> name instead of only using my full name. I wrote a post at the time explaining the origins of the name, but essentially this is what I chose to use as the name of my business and professional brand.
</div>

While this project is still a work in progress, the overall goal is to develop a portfolio and descriptive demonstration of the skills I've developed over the years as a full stack web developer. As I gather my thoughts and demonstrate a basic way to deploy a web application using modern tools, I will build out these features.

## Background

Since its inception, the technologies of the web have varied wildly. Implementing standards that satisfy the range of diverse requirements is a complex and time-consuming process. Business and industry isn't satisfied to wait for standards to be finalized and uniformly implemented, so browsers and developers have always been forced to design work-arounds and compromises to write code that worked consistently on the wide variety of devices of any given user-base.

In short, my experience with web development has required me to learn many different technologies, including complex applications like Microsoft Front Page, Visual Studio, Android Studio, Intellij, etc.; front-end frameworks like jQuery, React, Vue, Angular, Lit, not to mention vanilla JavaScript, CSS, and HTML themselves; back-end languages and frameworks like C#.NET, Java, PHP, WordPress, Drupal, Laravel, Symfony, (and many other random PHP frameworks like Kohana, CakePHP, Slim, CodeIgniter, etc.); source control like SVN, Mercurial/scm, and of course git; scripting languages like bash, PowerShell, and Python, all the various flavors of SQL and NoSQL databases;  devops software including setting up physical servers, deploying and administering linux and other virtual machines, transitioning to learning how to deploy and manage serverless cloud architecture and containerization... the lists go on.

The amount of varying processes and workflows between all these technologies is obviously overwhelming. All the time and energy required to keep up with this evolving landscape over the years has taken its toll on me. Recent life circumstances have forced me to take stock of what I want out of my career and this industry, and the conclusion I've reached is that I primarily want to find a niche I can consistently hone. The list above is far too complex and varied to do this with, and I knew something had to change.

Fortunately (or maybe unfortunately in some instances, but that's an entirely different discussion) the technology industry has been hard at work over the last few years in standardizing native browser implementations over a wide range of functionality, and much of the overhead required to fill in inconsistencies across platforms is no longer needed. As a result, learning the native web technologies at the core of the web has become more vital than ever. Arriving at this understanding has motivated me to build a backlog of research and (what I hope is) educationally enriching content in the form of this blog and the following projects. I have always loved the work that I do, and I am excited to work through understanding how to navigate the challenges and opportunities the next phase of working in this industry will bring.


## Overview Of Projects

The following outlines an overview of the sub-domains I'm currently in the process of setting up.

### `bluesaltlabs.github.io`

- [ ] ...todo. describe what this is.
   - [ ] root domain that always works, deployed here and to Cloudflare pages?
- [ ] todo...


### `bluesaltlabs.com`

- **Subdomains:**
  - `bluesaltlabs.us`
  - `www.bluesaltlabs.com`
  - `www.bluesaltlabs.us`
- **Description:**
  - Primary website.
  - will include blog (once base functionality is completed)
  - will include portfolio
  - will include list of projects
  - will include list of finished demo projects
  - will include ways of contacting me
  - ...etc. This is the "front page" of BlueSalt Labs.


## `simple.bluesaltlabs.com` | `simple.bluesaltlabs.us`

- **Description:**
  - simple templates, quick loading, etc.
  - Eventually I want this to be fully static HTML/CSS with JavaScript only for dynamic data and interaction.
  - Work to get SEO on this site working really well.
  - Blog on this site, mirrors blog data.
  - This is the place I can build and deploy stuff from scratch.
    - Although I need to work on gaining a better understanding of how vite works.


## `music.bluesaltlabs.com` | `music.bluesaltlabs.us`

- **Description:**
  - For now this is empty.
  - Eventually I want to move all my music/audio related experiments and work to this subdomain / project.
  - for now this work resides on `simple.bluesaltlabs.com`.


... This post is a work in progress, so stay tuned for updates!
